My example for shared meaning is the language we use at work to describe things that people don't work there wouldn't understand. 
For example, "Cross-Sell" is used to describe product that we convince the customer to buy, rather than a customer choosing it on their own. 
All of my co-workers and I have learned the definition of cross-sell for the purpose of and in the context of work- 
that's why all of understand what my manager means when he says, "We need to get our cross-sell percentage up." 
Among us coworkers, we have a shared understanding of what the meaning of the phrase cross-sell is.

My example for how communication is a process is the way that my friends/family and I signal to each other that we are about to hang up the phone. 
Each of us don't want to feel rude for initiating the end of the call, but we have to end at some point, especially once the purpose of the call has been fulfilled. 
So, in order to end a call, one party usually says something along the lines of, "I'll let you get back to (X)" or "I'm about to do (X)." 
The purpose in saying this isn't actually to let the other party know what you're up to, it's to signal that you have about 30 seconds to say: wait, another thing; love you, bye, talk to you later, etc. 
before one or both people are expected to hang up. 
When I first got a phone, I ended calls awkwardly all the time because I hadn't learned about this method of phone communication. 
It took time for me to learn how it is acceptable for me to end a call and also the specific phrases that each person in my life tend to use.

My example for communication being based on a relationship, intent, and context is the way that I say goodbye to people after I've spent time with them in person. 
For context, I am a hugger; when possible, I will choose physical contact as my primary way to show affection to my close friends and family. 
However, I know some of my friends and family don't like physical affection, and I have different relationships with each person in my life. 
For a specific set of people, when I use phrases like "I'm going to head out," or "I have to go to bed," and depending on the context, I may be expecting them to give me a hug before I or they leave. 
This is the case for two of my friends: Ron and Daisy. Everytime I hang out with them, at the end of the night, I will usually annouce that I'm going to leave. 
In this situation, they know that I'm expecting a hug before we part ways, even if I don't say it every time.

My example for how communication occurs in a context is the word mulligan. Mulligan isn't a very commonly used word, except in some very specific contexts. 
The dictionary definition of mulligan is "a stew made from odds and ends of food," and an informal definition is in a game when someone has a bad first try, and they take another try with no penalty. 
I wouldn't really expect most people to know that though, since it's a word not very commonly used. 
My siblings and I, however, have a very specific definition for the word mulligan, and it can only be used in the context of Pokemon the Trading Card Game. 
In game setup, each player has to draw 7 cards and have a Basic Pokemon in their hand or it's a mulligan, and they have to redraw cards before the game starts. 
Within my family, this is the only definition of the word mulligan and to use it in any other context would be incomprehensible. 

My example for purposeful communications circles back to work conversations. 
When communicating with customers at work, I need to be as clear as possible about what I think the customer expects from me and how I plan to help them. 
The purpose of me being at work and customers coming to my institution is specifically for the service that we provide, so it's very important that the customer is able to communicate what they want to us. 
Many times, we are also communicating with the customer as well: asking clarifying questions or figuring our what to sell them, so it's not just a one-way street, even though it's a customer-employee conversation.

My example for how communication is culturally defined is internet lingo. 
The example that I'm going to use is a meme format of hero vs villain dialogue, used in internet culture. 
The expectation in certain social media circles is that everyone has had exposure to media that contains superheroes and supervillains (or just normal heroes and villains), and has a general understanding of the main personality traits, goals, and relationships of the generic hero and villain. 
Using this, people will create posts about Hero and Villain, without needing to provide context for who they are. 
For example, I found a post by esperosisdoeswriting on tumblr that reads, "Prompt #631: 'If you don't stop singing that song over and over again, I'm going to exorcise you,' [Villain] groaned. / 'Too bad,' [Hero]'s ghost laughed, 'You killed me, now you get to deal with the consequences.'" 
Even without the context of a full story, we still have a general idea of how to fill in the blanks based on our culture's understanding of the relationship between heroes and villains. 

shared meaning- interpretation- work lingo
process- saying goodbye
relationship, intent, context- saying hug me
context- pokemon lingo
purposeful - work questions
culturally defined - hero/villain storys


